* TOC
{:toc}

{% assign sinceVersion = "4.2" %}
{% include templates/since.md %}

{% assign feature = "Reporting" %}{% include templates/pe-feature-banner.md %}

In ThingsBoard, **Reporting** is a powerful and flexible tool for collecting, structuring, and automatically distributing data in the form of reports.


In ThingsBoard, reporting is built on two key components:
- **Configured report template** – Defines the structure, content, and format of the report. A template can be in **PDF** or **CSV** format and may include any supported components, such as tables, charts, text blocks, images, and more.
- **Scheduler event** – Automatically triggers report generation at the specified time and sends it to selected recipients via available delivery channels (such as email, Slack, and other integrations).

<b><font size="3">Key features</font></b><br>
- **Automated scheduling** – preconfigured scheduler events can send reports on a set schedule without any user action.
- **Reusable templates** – a single template can be used for different recipients by applying filters and parameters. 
- **Event-based delivery** – send reports when specific events occur (e.g., an active alarm on a device).
- **Rich content support** – include text blocks, tables, charts, images, and more. 
- **Notification integration** – attach a generated report to system notifications (Email, Slack).

<b><font size="3">Where it&#39;s useful</font></b><br>
- Regular monitoring of your device&#39;s metrics.
- Sharing summary data with partners or management.
- Archiving data in an easy-to-read format.
- Automating communication during incidents.

<br><b><font size="6">Key concepts</font></b>

## Report templates

A **report template** in ThingsBoard defines the structure, layout, and content of a report that will be generated by the system using the scheduler. It serves as the foundation for creating visually rich and functional reports in one of two formats:
- **PDF** – visually styled reports that may include charts, tables, images, and company branding.
- **CSV** – data-oriented tabular reports that are easy to analyze in Excel or BI tools.

**Example**:

**Report template** and the **report generated from it**

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="report-example" %}

### Creating report template

- Open the "**Reporting**" page from the left-hand sidebar. You&#39;ll automatically be taken to the "**Templates**" tab.
- Click the "**+ Add report template**" button in the top-right corner.
- Choose "**Create new report template**".
- In the popup, fill out the following:
  - **Name** – a descriptive name for the template.
  - **Format**: **PDF** or **CSV**.
  - **Type**:
    - **Report** - a complete standalone report template.
    - [Subreport](#subreport) - a modular component that can be embedded inside another report.
  - **Description** (*optional*) – provide additional context, if needed.
  - Click "**Add**" to open the **report builder** interface.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="create-new-report-template" %}

### Report builder

The **Report Builder** is a drag-and-drop editor that lets you design your report template using visual and data components. You have full control over both the appearance and structure of the report.

Here&#39;s what the Report Builder looks like:

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="report-builder" %}

### Components & Interaction

Templates are made up of customizable components, each serving as a visual or functional block. These components determine what will appear in your final report and how it will be presented.

<b><font size="3">Main component types</font></b><br>
- **Text blocks**. Add headings, paragraphs, or section descriptions to your report.
  - Supports plain or rich text.
  - Can include [dynamic placeholders](#variables--dynamic-content) for timestamps, entity names, user details, and more.
- **Tables**. Display structured data from your ThingsBoard entities. Supported types include:
  - **Entity table** – shows static attributes or the latest telemetry values for a list of entities.
  - **Time series table** – displays telemetry data over time, with options for time intervals, aggregation, and filtering. 
  - **Alarm table** – lists the history of alarms triggered by entities, including severity, timestamp, and status. Useful for monitoring system activity, faults, or security events.

  Each table&#39;s style can be customized via the layout configuration tab — adjust column widths, font sizes, borders, and pagination.
- **Logos & Images**. Add branding elements or visual illustrations, such as company logos, product images, or diagrams. You can control size, positioning, and alignment.

<b><font size="3">Component configuration</font></b><br>

Each component has two main configuration sections:
- **Data configuration** — defines which data the component will display and how it will be filtered. Supports [entity aliases](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/ui/aliases/){:target="_blank"} and filters for dynamic data binding.
- **Layout configuration** — controls the visual style and formatting in the final document.

#### Supported entity aliases

Report templates fully support the same [entity alias](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/ui/aliases/){:target="_blank"} model as [dashboards](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/dashboards/){:target="_blank"} in ThingsBoard. Additionally, several new entity filters have been introduced:

**For reporting scenarios:**
- **Originator entity** - the entity that either originated the message sent to the "Generate Report" rule node or triggered the creation of a notification.
- **Owner of originator entity** - the owner of the entity that originated the message sent to the "Generate Report" rule node, or the owner of the entity that triggered the creation of a notification.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="reporting-new-entity-aliases-1" %}


#### Variables & dynamic content

In ThingsBoard, report components provide data as **variables** that can be directly referenced inside component elements. You can insert these variables anywhere text is allowed — for example, in a text block, table header, chart label, or other dynamic fields. This enables you to create highly personalized, context-aware reports.

<b><font size="3">System variables:</font></b><br>
System variables are available in any report or subreport, regardless of the connected data source.

Examples:
- **${pageNumber}** — displays the current page number in the report.
- **${totalPages}** — shows the total number of pages in the report.
- **${reportCreatedTime}** — stores the date and time when the report was created, in the format **yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss**.
- **${entityName}** - the technical or system name of the entity used in the report.
- **${entityLabel}** - A human-readable name of the entity.
- **${rowCount}** - displays the number of records (rows) contained in the table (applies to table components only).

<b><font size="3">Data source variables:</font></b><br>
Data source variables are generated based on the specified **data keys** (attributes or telemetry) from the **datasource** connected to the component (device, asset, etc.).
Each selected key automatically becomes available as a variable that can be inserted into any text field within the report.

Examples:
- **${status}** — value of the attribute or telemetry with the key *status*.
- **${temperature}** — value of the telemetry with the key *temperature*.
- **${voltage}** — value of the *voltage* key.

> **Note:** If the connected datasource does not contain a value for the specified key, the variable in the report will remain empty.

<b><font size="4">Using variables in the editor:</font></b><br>

- In the **Report Builder**, add a component (for example, Rich text) and, in the "**Data**" tab, specify its data source (target entity and data keys).
- Next, in the component&#39;s text field, type the `$` symbol where you want to insert a variable&#39;s value. This will open a list of all available variables in the current context.
- **Select a variable** (for example, ${reportCreatedTime}), and its value will be inserted into the report during generation.
- Continue entering text and adding variables as needed. 
- When finished, click the "**Save**" button in the top-right corner to apply your changes.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="variables-and-dynamic-content-1" %}

To verify the result, generate a test report sample by clicking the corresponding button in the top-right corner.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="variables-and-dynamic-content-2" %}


### Importing report template

Do you have a ready-made report template in `.json` format? Simply click "**Import report template**" and upload your file — all configurations and components will be brought in automatically.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="import-report-template" %}

## Scheduling

**Scheduler** is a mechanism for automated report generation. It allows you to configure the frequency of automatic report creation and distribution (daily, weekly, monthly, at a specific time, etc.) based on a predefined template.

<br><b><font size="4">Creating a new scheduled report</font></b>

- Go to the "**Scheduling**" tab.
- Click the "**+ Scheduled report**" button in the top-right corner.
- In the scheduling dialog:
  - **Name** – Specify the schedule name.
  - **General configuration**:
    - **Event type** – always "Generate Report".
    - **Report template** – select a [predefined report](#report-templates) template to use.
    - **User** – select the user whose credentials will be used for report generation.
    - **Time zone** – choose the time zone for schedule execution.
    - **Recipients**:
      - **Recipients** — specify the users who will receive the report. 
      - **Template** — select the template that defines the report delivery method.
  - **Schedule settings**:
    - **Start time** – set the initial trigger time.
    - **Time zone** – select the time zone in which the schedule will operate.
    - **Repeat** – toggle to enable recurrence: choose intervals like daily, weekly, or monthly.

You&#39;ll find all generated reports under the "[Reports](#reports)" tab.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="create-schedule-report" %}


## Next steps

{% assign currentGuide = "AdvancedFeatures" %}{% include templates/multi-project-guides-banner.md %}