---
layout: docwithnav
title: Netvox LoRaWAN Devices and ThingsBoard

---

* TOC
{:toc}

Netvox has more than 400 LoRaWAN end devices that can be integrated into systems supporting the LoRaWAN protocol and are widely used in IoT solutions. By integrating data from Netvox devices into ThingsBoard, users can easily visualize and monitor data through the ThingsBoard [dashboard](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/dashboards/){:target="_blank"}.

## Register Netvox devices on a third-party platform

To register a Netvox device, we will use The Things Stack Cloud Discovery. This is a free plan of [The Things Stack Cloud](https://www.thethingsindustries.com/stack/plans/){:target="_blank"} that allows you to connect up to 10 devices and 10 gateways with no time restrictions, making it ideal for testing your device.

### Create application

First, you need to create an application. Follow these steps:

- Log in to the Network Server and navigate to the "**Applications**" page;
- Click the "**+ Add applications**" button;
- Enter **Application ID** and **Application name**;
- Click "**Create application**" button.

{% assign createapplication = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-1-1_sign.png,
        title: Log in to the Network Server and navigate to the "**Applications**" page. Click the "**+ Add applications**" button;
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-1-2_sign.png,
        title: Enter **Application ID** and **Application name**б and click "**Create application**" button.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid createapplication="true" imageCollection=createapplication %}

### Register End Device

Now, register a device by following these steps:

- Go to the "**End devices**" page;
- Click the "**+ Register end device**" button;
- Fill in the Netvox device information:
  - **End device brand**: Netvox Technology Co., Ltd;
  - **Model**: Select the device model;
  - **Hardware Ver**: Automatically generated by the system;
  - **Firmware Ver**: Automatically generated by the system;
  - **Profile (Region)**: Select the device’s frequency, such as AS923.
- Provisioning information about device, and click "**Register end device**" button;

Check if the information is correct after the device is successfully registered.

{% assign registerenddevice = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-2-1_sign.png,
        title: Go to the "**End devices**" page. Click the "**+ Register end device**" button;
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-2-2_sign.png,
        title: Fill in the Netvox device information.
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-2-3_sign.png,
        title: Provisioning information about device, and click "**Register end device**" button;
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-2-4_sign.png,
        title: Check if the information is correct after the device is successfully registered.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid registerenddevice="true" imageCollection=registerenddevice %}

### Network Joining

Turn on the device and make sure it is connected to the Network Server.

{% assign networkjoining = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/2-3-1_sign.png,
        title: Turn on the device and make sure it is connected to the Network Server.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid networkjoining="true" imageCollection=networkjoining %}

<br>
*Please go to the [Netvox devices](#netvox-devices) section or [official Netvox website](http://www.netvox.com.tw/index.html){:target="_blank"} for detailed info about turning on a device.

## Connect the device to ThingsBoard

[Integrations](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/integrations/){:target="_blank"} in ThingsBoard is a feature that enables connecting external devices, services, or platforms to ThingsBoard for processing, storing, and visualizing data.

### Create Integration in ThingsBoard

You will need to have access to ThingsBoard Professional Edition. The easiest way is to use [ThingsBoard Cloud](https://thingsboard.io/installations/choose-region/){:target="_blank"} server.
The alternative option is to install ThingsBoard using [installation guide](/docs/user-guide/install/pe/installation-options/){:target="_blank"}.

- Sign up and log in to ThingsBoard;
- Go to the "**Integrations**" page of the "**Integrations center**" section. Click "**plus**" icon in the upper right corner to add new integration. Select "**The Things Stack Community**" as the integration type. Then, click "**Next**";
- Use the default function for Decoder and Encoder. Click "**Next**";
- Next, fill in the fields with your parameters. Enter the third platform’s MQTT account and password. After, press "**Add**" button.

{% assign createintegration = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/netvox-add-integration-1.png,
        title: Sign up and log in to ThingsBoard. Go to the "**Integrations**" page of the "**Integrations center**" section. Click "**plus**" icon in the upper right corner to add new integration. Select "**The Things Stack Community**" as the integration type. Then, click "**Next**";
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/netvox-add-integration-2.png,
        title: Use the default Decoder function. Click "**Next**";
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/netvox-add-integration-3.png,
        title: Use the default Encoder function. Click "**Next**";
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/netvox-add-integration-4.png,
        title: Next, fill in the fields with your parameters. Enter the third platform’s MQTT account and password. After, press "**Add**" button.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid createintegration="true" imageCollection=createintegration %}

### Check the device list

[Devices](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/ui/devices/){:target="_blank"} - basic IoT entities that may produce telemetry data and handle RPC commands. For example, sensors, actuators, switches;

- Go to the "**Devices**" page of the "**Entities**" section; 
- Click on the created device (If the device’s info does not show on the list, please reboot the device); 
- Navigate to the "**Latest telemetry**" tab to check the latest data.

{% assign devicelist = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/device-1.png,
        title: Go to the "**Devices**" page of the "**Entities**" section. Click on the created device (If the device’s info does not show on the list, please reboot the device). Navigate to the "**Latest telemetry**" tab to check the latest data.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid devicelist="true" imageCollection=devicelist %}

### Create Dashboard

A [Dashboard](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/dashboards/){:target="_blank"} in ThingsBoard allows users to visualize and monitor data collected from IoT devices.

Let&#39;s create a dashboard:

- Go to the "**Dashboards**" page;
- Click "**+**", and select "**Create new dashboard**" from drop-down menu;
- Enter the dashboard title and other information. Then click "**Add**".

{% assign adddashboard = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-1.png,
        title: Go to the "**Dashboards**" page. Click "**plus**" icon and select "**Create new dashboard**" from drop-down menu. Enter the dashboard title and other information. Then click "**Add**".
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid adddashboard="true" imageCollection=adddashboard %}

<br>
The dashboard has been successfully created. After creating the dashboard, it will open automatically, and you can immediately start adding widgets to it. 

Now, [add your first widget](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/widgets/#adding-a-widget-to-the-dashboard){:target="_blank"} on the dashboard:

- Click the "**+ Add widget**" button at the top of the screen or click the large "**Add new widget**" icon in the center of the screen (if this is your first widget on this dashboard);
- Add a widget to the dashboard, such as the bar chart of the device's current: 
  - Find the "**Charts**" widget bundle and click on it; 
  - Select the "**Bars**" widget;
- Specify the device "**r718n37**" as the datasource;
- Add "**Current1**", "**Current2**", "**Current3**" key.
- Click "**Add**";

To make the widget slightly larger, simply grab the bottom right corner and drag it. Once you&#39;re happy with the new size, don&#39;t forget to click "**Save**" to save your changes to the dashboard.

{% assign adddashboard2 = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-2.png,
        title: Click the "**+ Add widget**" button at the top of the screen or click the large "**Add new widget**" icon in the center of the screen (if this is your first widget on this dashboard);
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-3.png,
        title: Find the "**Charts**" widget bundle and click on it;
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-4.png,
        title: Select the "**Bars**" widget;
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-5.png,
        title: Specify the device "**r718n37**" as the datasource. Add "**Current1**", "**Current2**", "**Current3**" key. Then, click "**Add**";
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-6.png,
        title: To make the widget slightly larger, simply grab the bottom right corner and drag it. Once you&#39;re happy with the new size, don&#39;t forget to click "**Save**" to save your changes to the dashboard.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid adddashboard2="true" imageCollection=adddashboard2 %}

<br>
Add another widget, "Timeseries table". Learn more about widgets [here](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/widgets/){:target="_blank"}.

{% assign adddashboard3 = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/add-dashboard-7.png,
        title: Add another "Timeseries table" widget.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid adddashboard3="true" imageCollection=adddashboard3 %}

## Netvox devices

| **Model**                                                               | **Power Supply**                         | **Turn on**                                                                                                              |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| R311 Series, <br> R312 Series R313 Series                               | Battery                                  | Short press any function key till green and red indicator flashes once. Ex. R311A, R311B, R313CB, R313DA, R312A          |
| R711, R315 Series                                                       | Battery                                  | Short press the function key and the green indicator flashes once. Ex. R711, R31501, R315LA                              |
| R718 Series, R720 Series, RA08B Series                                  | Battery                                  | Press and hold the function key for 3 seconds till the green indicator flashes once. Ex. R718N37, R718H, R720A, RA08B01S |
| R718 Series, R831 Series, RA08D Series,RA07 Series RA07xxY Series, R211 | DC in                                    | Plug in the power adapter. Ex. R718N37D, R718PC, RA08D09S, RA0715, RA0716Y, R831C                                        |
| R726 Series                                                             | solar and rechargeable lithium batteries | Connect a battery pack. Ex. R72601, R72610, R72630                                                                       |
| R60 Series                                                              | DC in                                    | Plug in the power adapter. Ex. R602A, R602B, R603                                                                        |
| RA02 Series                                                             | Battery                                  | Press any function key until the green indicator flashes once. Ex. RA02A, RA02C                                          |
| RA02 Series                                                             | DC in                                    | Plug in the power adapter. Ex. RA02G, RA02D1                                                                             |
| RB02 Series                                                             | Battery                                  | Press the function key till seeing one green indicator flash and one red indicator flash. Ex. RB02B, RB02C, RB02I        |
| R309                                                                    | Battery                                  | Press and hold the emergency button for 3 seconds until the green/red indicator flashes once. Ex. R30901, R30902         |
| R719A                                                                   | Battery                                  | The magnet approach to the top cover for 3 seconds.                                                                      |
| RP02 Series                                                             | DC in                                    | Connect a power module Ex. RP02RH3PN063                                                                                  |
| R809 Series                                                             | AC100-240V                               | Connect to an AC 100-240V power source. Ex. R809A, R809A01                                                               |
| R816 Series                                                             | AC 100-240V                              | Connect to an AC 100-240V power source. Ex. R816A, R816A01                                                               |
| ---                                                                     

*More detailed information on the [Netvox website](http://www.netvox.com.tw/index.html){:target="_blank"}.

### Data-converters

Click to open [the data converters library of ThingsBoard](https://github.com/thingsboard/data-converters/tree/main/VENDORS/Netvox){:target="_blank"}.

{% assign adddashboard3 = '
    ===
        image: /images/samples/netvox/4-2-1.png,
        title: The original document of ThingsBoard data converter.
'
%}

{% include images-gallery.liquid adddashboard3="true" imageCollection=adddashboard3 %}

## Next steps

{% assign currentGuide = "HardwareSamples" %}{% include templates/guides-banner.md %}