---
layout: docwithnav
title: Provisioning devices
description: IoT device management using ThingsBoard provisioning devices feature
deviceProfileConfiguration:
    0:
        image: /images/user-guide/device-provisioning/device-provisioning-step-1.png 
        title: 'You can either create a new device profile or open the existing one. To create a new one you should open the Device profiles page and click on the "+" icon in the table header.'
    1:
        image: /images/user-guide/device-provisioning/device-provisioning-step-2.png 
        title: 'Input a name of the new device profile and click on Step 4 of the "Add device profile" wizard. We will use name "Device Provisioning Test" in this example. However, typically this should be your device model or similar.' 
    2:
        image: /images/user-guide/device-provisioning/device-provisioning-step-3.png 
        title: 'Choose one of the provisioning strategies, copy the provisioning key and secret, and finally click "Add". ' 
         
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## Use Case description

As a device manufacturer or firmware developer, I would like my devices to automatically provision themselves in ThingsBoard.
During the automatic provisioning, the device may either generate unique credentials or ask the server to provide unique credentials for the device. 
   
## How it works?

<object width="80%" data="/images/user-guide/device-provisioning/flow.svg"></object>

The device may send a device provisioning request (Request) to the ThingsBoard. The Request should always contain a Provision key and secret. 
The Request may optionally include the device name and credentials generated by the device. 
If those credentials are absent, the Server will generate an Access Token to be used by the device.

Provisioning request example:

```json
{
  "deviceName": "DEVICE_NAME",
  "provisionDeviceKey": "YOUR_PROVISION_KEY_HERE",
  "provisionDeviceSecret": "YOUR_PROVISION_SECRET_HERE"
}
```
{: .copy-code}

The ThingsBoard validates the Request and replies with the device provisioning response (Response). 
The successful response contains device id, credentials type, and body. 
If the validation was not successful, the Response will contain only the status.

Provisioning response example:

```json
{
  "provisionDeviceStatus":"SUCCESS",  
  "credentialsType":"ACCESS_TOKEN",
  "accessToken":"sLzc0gDAZPkGMzFVTyUY"
}
```
{: .copy-code}

During the validation of the Request, ThingsBoard will first check the supplied *provisionDeviceKey* and *provisionDeviceSecret* to find the corresponding [Device Profile](/docs/user-guide/device-profiles/).
Once the profile is found, the platform will use the configured provision strategy to validate the device name. 
There are two provision strategies available:

* **Allowing creating new devices** - checks that the device with the same name has not registered in ThingsBoard yet. 
This strategy is useful when you don't know the list of unique device names (MAC addresses, etc.) during manufacturing, but the device itself has access to this info in the firmware. 
It is easier to implement, but it is less secure than the second strategy.  
* **Checking pre-provisioned devices** - checks that the device with the same name has been already created in ThingsBoard, but hasn't been provisioned yet.
This strategy is useful when you want to allow provisioning only for a specific list of devices. Let's assume that you have collected a list of unique IDS (MAC addresses, etc) during the manufacturing. 
You can use [bulk provisioning](/docs/user-guide/bulk-provisioning/) to upload this list to ThingsBoard. Now, devices from the list can issue provision requests, and no other devices will be able to provision themselves.  
          
Once the provisioning is complete, ThingsBoard will update *provisionState* server attribute of the device and will set it to *provisioned* value.

## Device profile configuration

You should configure the device profile to enable provisioning feature, collect provision device key and provision device secret.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="deviceProfileConfiguration" showListImageTitles="true" %}

## Provision Device APIs 

#### MQTT Device APIs 

You can use the [MQTT API](/docs/reference/mqtt-api/#device-provisioning) reference to develop your device firmware that will perform the provision request.   
As mentioned earlier, a device can request the server to generate the credentials or to provide its own credentials during the registration process.
See request/response and code examples for each option below:

{% capture mqttcredentialstogglespec %}
Credentials generated by the ThingsBoard server%,%without%,%templates/provisioning/mqtt-without-credentials-type.md%br%
Devices supplies<br/>Access Token%,%access-token%,%templates/provisioning/mqtt-access-token-credentials-type.md%br%
Devices supplies<br/>Basic MQTT Credentials%,%mqtt-basic%,%templates/provisioning/mqtt-basic-credentials-type.md%br%
Devices supplies<br/>X.509 Certificate%,%x509-certificate%,%templates/provisioning/x509-certificate-credentials-type.md{% endcapture %}
{% include content-toggle.html content-toggle-id="mqttprovisioning" toggle-spec=mqttcredentialstogglespec %}

#### HTTP Device APIs 

You may use the [HTTP API](/docs/reference/http-api/#device-provisioning) reference to develop your device firmware that will perform the provision request.   
As mentioned earlier, the device may request server to generate the credentials or provide its own credentials during the registration process.
See request/response and code examples for each option below:

{% capture httpcredentialstogglespec %}
Credentials generated by ThingsBoard server%,%without%,%templates/provisioning/http-without-credentials-type.md%br%
Devices supplies<br/>Access Token%,%access-token%,%templates/provisioning/http-access-token-credentials-type.md%br%{% endcapture %}
{% include content-toggle.html content-toggle-id="httpprovisioning" toggle-spec=httpcredentialstogglespec %}

#### CoAP Device APIs 

You may use the [CoAP API](/docs/reference/coap-api/#device-provisioning) reference to develop your device firmware that will perform the provision request.   
As mentioned earlier, the device may request server to generate the credentials or provide its own credentials during the registration process.
See request/response and code examples for each option below:

{% capture coapcredentialstogglespec %}
Credentials generated by ThingsBoard server%,%without%,%templates/provisioning/coap-without-credentials-type.md%br%
Devices supplies<br/>Access Token%,%access-token%,%templates/provisioning/coap-access-token-credentials-type.md%br%{% endcapture %}
{% include content-toggle.html content-toggle-id="coapprovisioning" toggle-spec=coapcredentialstogglespec %}

## Next steps

{% assign currentGuide = "AdvancedFeatures" %}{% include templates/guides-banner.md %}