---
layout: plain
title: ThingsBoard Demo Server Privacy Policy
description: ThingsBoard Demo Server Privacy Policy

---

<br>
<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 1.5em; font-weight: bold;">PRIVACY POLICY</p>
<br>
<h2> Privacy Policy Statement on the Use of this Service (Website)</h2>
<p style="font-size: 0.8em; color: grey">As of December 22, 2025</p> 
<br>

<p> <b>1. Definition of Policy</b> </p> 
<p> 1.1 The following Privacy Policy is adopted by ThingsBoard, Inc. (“ThingsBoard” or “We”) in regard to the use of ThingsBoard Demo Server Platform ("Live Demo", "Community Edition Demo Cloud") and related web pages and services (the <b>“Service”</b>), excluding affiliated websites covered by independent privacy policies. This Privacy Policy applies to information collected through the Service and otherwise (for example, if you contact us directly). However, it does not cover any information, whether personal or not, that may be collected through other websites or in other venues. Your use of the Service and our remaining services is subject to this Privacy Policy, which may be updated periodically to reflect changes in how we collect, use, and/or share information.</p>

<p> 1.2 It is your responsibility to review this Privacy Policy together with the actual date of the change. Please check this Privacy Policy each time you use our Service to ensure you are aware of any changes in our practices. Your continued use of the Service will signify your acceptance of any changes to our Privacy Policy.</p>

<br>
<p> <b>2. Collection</b> </p> 
<p> 2.1 You may not access the Service without providing some portion of the required personal information to us. If you request receipt of certain notifications and updates, we will collect personally identifiable information, which you voluntarily give us. Said information may include your name, telephone number, email address, postal address, and any other information which would allow someone to identify you personally. Certain non-personally identifiable information, or non-PII, may also be collected when you use the Service, including the type of Internet browser and operating system you use, region, other navigational clickstream data, etc.</p> 

<p> 2.2 We may collect:</p>

- Name, email address, phone number, physical address
- Name of the company, job title and other professional details like job role, industry, etc.
- Billing details for clients engaged in a business relationship
- Opinions and other information submitted via our websites, surveys or other channels (for ex: LinkedIn, Twitter, FB & others)
- Whatever additional information related to you, such as your computer’s operating system, browser, and your use of and activities on our websites
- When registering, subscribing or ordering on our site, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your: name, e-mail address, mailing address, phone number or credit card information. You may, however, visit our site anonymously.
- The content you provide through our products: The Services include the Thingsboard Demo, Thingsboard PE Demo, platforms you use, where we collect and store content that you add to the service. This content includes any information about you that you may choose to include.
- Information you provide through our support channels: The Services also include customer support, where you may choose to submit information regarding a problem you are experiencing with a Service. Whether you designate yourself as a technical contact, open a support ticket, speak to one of our representatives directly or otherwise engage with our support team, you will be asked to provide contact information, a summary of the problem you are experiencing, and any other documentation, screenshots or information that would be helpful in resolving the issue.

<p> 2.3 We utilise Google Analytics, a web analysis service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"), to help us analyze how users interact with our website and services, improve our offerings, and understand user behaviour. Google Analytics uses cookies and other technologies to collect and process anonymous information about your use of the services, including your IP address, pages visited, time spent on the site, and other details. This data is transmitted to and stored by Google on its servers. The information generated by Google Analytics is used for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators, and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. By registering for an account or otherwise using our services, you explicitly acknowledge and consent to the collection and analysis of this data by us and Google, as described in this section. You understand that this data will be processed in accordance with Google's Privacy Policy and our own.</p>

<p> 2.4 You may collect personal information of individuals approached to use the Service by you (<b>“Users”</b>). You represent and warrant that your users accept this Privacy Policy and agree to share their personal data with you. You are liable for all and any breach of the personally identifiable information of Users. </p> 

<p> 2.5 Pursuant to the Service use, certain personal data and sensitive data can be collected by you with help of specific technical equipment for without limitation remote monitoring and control (<b>“IoT Devices”</b>). You represent and warrant that you have a legal right to such collection and Users agree upon said data collection.</p> 


<br>
<p> <b>3. Purpose and Use</b> </p> 
<p> 3.1 ThingsBoard, Inc. uses the personally identifiable information to provide you with public information regarding us and our services; to share news, updates and reports in response to your inquiries; for gaining an understanding of your needs; for performing statistical analysis or analyses of global Service usage; for security and legal compliance; for notifying you of any changes to this Service or our remain services; for billing; and for other services. We also reserve the right to make full use of information that is not personally identifiable information.</p> 

<p>3.2 We generally retain information for so long as it is relevant to serve you. Data may persist in copies made for backup purposes.</p> 

<br>
<p> <b>4. Disclosure</b> </p> 
<p>4.1 We will not sell, share, or rent your information to others except to our staff and to trusted third parties and affiliates when we need to share the information to provide a product or service you have requested. Without limiting the above, we will share your personal data with third parties only in the ways that are described in this Privacy Policy.</p> 

<p>4.2 It may happen, the disclosure of your personally identifiable information would be necessary in response to a subpoena, court order, or a request for cooperation from law enforcement or other governmental agency globally, in accordance with applicable law. Your personal data may also be shared when we believe disclosure is necessary in connection with efforts to investigate, prevent, or take other action regarding actual or suspected illegal activity or other wrongdoing, to protect and defend the rights, property or safety of the Service, ThingsBoard, Inc., our users, or others.</p> 

<p> 4.3 We will use commercially reasonable efforts to make you aware of the disclosure of your personal information contrary to the terms set forth in this Privacy Policy (e.g., in the event of any material security breach).</p> 

<p> 4.4 We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you place an order or enter, submit, or access your personal information.</p>

<br>
<p> <b>5. Third Parties</b> </p> 
<p>5.1 The Service may contain links to other websites owned and operated by third parties. Said third parties and affiliates may collect information from you, their computer servers may be located outside your region. Browsing of Third Party websites and/or using their services out of the scope of this Privacy Policy. We do not control, and are not responsible for, the privacy and security practices of any third parties. Please acknowledge their privacy and security terms prior to any interaction with third parties. </p> 

<br>
<p> <b>6. No tracking</b> </p> 
<p>6.1 Nowadays some browsers provide the “Do Not Track” feature in a proprietary way. There is no common understanding of how to interpret Do Not Track requests. The Service does not currently respond to Do Not Track signals.</p> 

<br>
<p id="unsubscribe"> <b>7. Unsubscribe request</b> </p> 
<p>By subscribing to the Live Demo subscribe to our newsletters and remaining email campaigns without limitation. You can opt out at any time by using the unsubscribe links at the bottom of our emails. Our Service gives you the ability to delete all personal information from within the Service. 
You can completely delete your account and data by clicking the "Delete Account" button available on the User Profile Page. Please note, however, that we may need to retain certain information for record keeping purposes, to complete transactions or to comply with our legal obligations.</p> 


