* TOC
{:toc}

{% assign sinceVersion = "4.2" %}
{% include templates/since.md %}

{% assign feature = "Reporting" %}{% include templates/pe-feature-banner.md %}

**Reporting** is a powerful and flexible tool for automated report generation in PDF or CSV formats. With it, you can:
- Create report templates.
- Schedule automatic report generation and distribution.
- View the generated documents.

This functionality greatly simplifies analytics and reporting processes within the ThingsBoard ecosystem.<br><br>

<object width="100%" data="/images/user-guide/reporting/report-scheme.svg"></object>

<br>**Reporting architecture**

Reporting service supports two deployment modes:

- **Monolith mode**: Runs within the core ThingsBoard monolith instance.
- **Microservices mode**: Can be launched as a separate microservice, allowing for better scalability and isolation.

## Report templates

Report template in ThingsBoard define the structure, layout, and content of report to be generated by the system using the [scheduler](#scheduling).
They serve as the foundation for creating visually rich and functional reports in one of the two supported formats:
- **PDF** — visually styled reports that may include charts, tables, images, and elements of your company’s branding. 
- **CSV** — data-oriented tabular reports that are easy to analyze in Excel or BI tools.

**Report template** and the **report generated from it**:

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="report-example" %}

### Creating report template

- Open the "**Reporting**" page from the left-hand sidebar. You&#39;ll automatically be taken to the "**Templates**" tab.
- Click the "**+ Add report template**" button in the top-right corner. 
- Choose "**Create new report template**".
- In the popup, fill out the following:
  - **Name** – a descriptive name for the template.
  - **Format**: **PDF** or **CSV**.
  - **Type**:
    - **Report** - a complete standalone report template. 
    - [Subreport](#subreport) - a modular component that can be embedded inside another report.
  - **Description** (*optional*) – provide additional context, if needed.
  - Click "**Add**" to open the **report builder** interface.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="create-new-report-template" %}

### Report builder

The **report builder** is a drag-and-drop editor that allows you to build the report template using visual and data components. You have full control over the appearance and structure of the report.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="report-builder" %}

#### Components & interaction

Templates are composed of **customizable components**, each representing a **visual** or **functional block**.   
These components define what will be included in your final report and how it will be presented.

Below are the main types of components you can use in a template:

- **Text blocks**. Use to add **headings**, **paragraphs**, or **section descriptions** within your report. 
  - Supports **plain** or **rich text**. 
  - Can include [dynamic placeholders](#variables--dynamic-content) for timestamps, entity names, user info, etc.
- **Tables** are components used to visualize structured data from your ThingsBoard entities. There are several supported table types:
  - **Entity table** — display static attributes or the latest telemetry values for a list of entities.
  - **Time series table** — show telemetry data over time, with support for time intervals, aggregation, and filtering. 
  - **Alarm table** — visualize the history of alarms triggered by entities. Include severity, timestamp, and status. Useful for monitoring system behavior, failures, or security events.
  
  Each table can be styled using the **layout** configuration tab — customize column widths, font sizes, borders, and pagination.
- **Dashboards**. Embed existing ThingsBoard dashboards directly into your reports. Great for including real-time charts, map widgets, or custom visualizations you've already configured in your dashboard environment. Automatically renders the current view of the dashboard during report generation.
- **Logos and Images**. Add visual elements to enhance branding or provide contextual illustrations. Upload static logos, product photos, or diagrams. Control size, positioning, and alignment.

**Each component has two key configuration sections:**
- **Data configuration**. This section determines what data the component will display and how it will be fetched or filtered. Each component supports entity aliasing and filtering, allowing dynamic data binding.
- **Layout configuration**. This controls the visual layout and formatting of the component in the final document.

#### Supported entity aliases and filters

Report templates fully support the same [entity alias](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/ui/aliases/){:target="_blank"} model as [dashboards](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/dashboards/){:target="_blank"} in ThingsBoard. Additionally, several new entity filters have been introduced:

**For reporting scenarios:**
- **Originator entity** - the entity that either originated the message sent to the "Generate Report" rule node or triggered the creation of a notification.
- **Owner of originator entity** - the owner of the entity that originated the message sent to the "Generate Report" rule node, or the owner of the entity that triggered the creation of a notification.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="reporting-new-entity-aliases-1" %}

**For subreporting scenarios:**
- **Entity from master report** - the entity retrieved from the data source configured for the subreport component. If multiple entities are present, a separate subreport component will be generated for each entity.
- **Owner of entity from master report** - the owner of entity retrieved from the data source configured for the Subreport component. If multiple entities are present, a separate subreport component will be generated for each entity.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="reporting-new-entity-aliases-2" %}

#### Variables & dynamic content

In ThingsBoard, report components provide data as variables that you can reference directly inside component elements. You can insert them wherever text is allowed — for example, in a text block, a table heading, a chart label, and other dynamic fields. 
This allows you to build highly personalized, context-aware reports.

Each report or sub-report component can contain a set of variables based on the specified data source, including:
- the name of the current entity (e.g., device, asset, etc.).
- attributes and telemetry values.
- timestamps, user data, report metadata, and more.

**Using variables in the editor**

- First, **add a data source** to the selected component.
- Next, **type the `$` symbol** in the text field of that component to open the list of all available variables in the current context.
- **Select a variable** (e.g., ${entityName}, ${currentUser}, ${reportDate}), and its value will be inserted into the report during generation.
- Click "**Save**" button in the top-right corner to apply the changes.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="variables-and-dynamic-content-1" %}

To verify the result, generate a test report sample by clicking the corresponding button in the top-right corner.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="variables-and-dynamic-content-2" %}

### Subreport

A **Subreport** in ThingsBoard is a special type of report template that is **designed to be embedded inside another (main) report**. It behaves like a **reusable**, **modular block** that receives context from the parent report and generates its content accordingly.

Just like regular reports, subreports can contain components such as tables, text blocks, images, dashboards, etc., and they fully support dynamic entity aliases and data filtering. However, subreports **are not scheduled or generated independently** — they are **included as part of a main report**.

**Subreports are especially useful when:**
- You want to **reuse a layout or data block** across multiple reports (e.g., a telemetry summary for devices).
- You need to **generate repeated sections** dynamically for multiple entities (e.g., per-device pages in a report).
- You want to **separate responsibilities** across different templates or teams working on report parts.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="create-subreport-template" %}

### Importing report template

Do you have a ready-made report template in `.json` format? Simply click "**Import report template**" and upload your file — all configurations and components will be brought in automatically.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="import-report-template" %}

## Scheduling

**Report scheduling** is based on the existing [scheduler](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/scheduler/){:target="_blank"} feature in ThingsBoard and allows automated report generation using a predefined [template](#report-templates) and schedule.

<br><b><font size="4">Creating a new scheduled report</font></b>

- Go to the "**Scheduling**" tab.
- Click the "**+ Scheduled report**" button in the top-right corner.
- In the scheduling dialog:
  - **Name** – Specify the schedule name.
  - **General configuration**:
    - **Event type** – always "Generate Report".
    - **Report template** – select a [predefined report](#report-templates) template to use.
    - **User** – select the user whose credentials will be used for report generation.
    - **Time zone** – choose the time zone for schedule execution.
    - **Recipients**:
      - **Recipients** — specify the users who will receive the report. 
      - **Template** — select the template that defines the report delivery method.
  - **Schedule settings**:
    - **Start time** – set the initial trigger time.
    - **Time zone** – select the time zone in which the schedule will operate.
    - **Repeat** – toggle to enable recurrence: choose intervals like daily, weekly, or monthly.

You&#39;ll find all generated reports under the "[Reports](#reports)" tab.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="create-schedule-report" %}

## Reports

The "**Reports**" tab stores all your generated reports. Here you can:
- Download reports.
- Filter reports by report template or by the user whose credentials were used to generate the report.
- Delete unnecessary reports.

> The number of generated reports can be limited per tenant via [tenant profile](/docs/{{docsPrefix}}user-guide/tenant-profiles/){:target="_blank"} configuration.

{% include images-gallery.html imageCollection="reports" %}

## Next steps

{% assign currentGuide = "AdvancedFeatures" %}{% include templates/multi-project-guides-banner.md %}